#summary Theme specification
#labels Phase-Implementation

<wiki:toc />
=Theme=
==Overview==
XE's design elements consist of layouts, module skins and widget skins. When you want to change them or add new one, you need to install each element and change its setting one by one. Besides, even if you create both layout and module skin, you need to separate them in a different zip file. To deal with such inconvenience, XE provides a new feature, theme.
Theme enables you to conveniently manage module skins and layouts to create more unified website design.
===Features===
XE skin creators can release the created layouts and module skins together in one file. 
Website administrators can change the website design all at once, by just setting its main theme.
===How it works===
When you set a theme and save it, it is applied to the layouts and module skins of all the website module instances at once.

==How to create==
===Location of theme===
Upload each theme folder to the /XE installation path/themes folder.
{{{
/XE installation path/themes/{{{[title of theme]}}}
}}}
===/XE installation path/themes/{{{[title of theme]}}}/conf/info.xml===
Create an info.xml by using the following structure.
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<theme>
	<version>Version</version>
	<title xml:lang="ko">테마이름</title>
	<title xml:lang="en">Title of Theme</title>
	<date>Date</date>
	<publisher email_address="" link="">
		<name xml:lang="ko">편집/제작자 이름</name>
		<name xml:lang="en">Name of Publisher</name>
	</publisher>
	<description xml:lang="ko">테마 설명</description>
	<description xml:lang="en">Description</description>
	<layout>
		<directory path="./layouts/xe_official" />
	</layout>
	<skinInfos>
		<skinInfo>
			<directory path="./modules/page/skins/default" />
		</skinInfo>
		<skinInfo>
			<directory path="./themes/{{{[title of theme]}}}/modules/board" />
		</skinInfo>
	</skinInfos>
</theme>
<!-- The file path ./ means /XE installation path. -->
}}}
<ul>
<li>version : Version name</li>
<li>title : Theme title</li>
<li>date : Creation date</li>
<li>publisher : Publisher who edited and created this theme</li>
<li>description : Description of theme</li>
<li>layout : Theme layout (1 at least)</li>
<li>skinInfos : Skins (one for each module, not duplicated)</li>
<li>directory path : Location of directory which contains skin files</li>
</ul>

===/XE installation path/themes/{{{[title of theme]}}}/modules/module name===
Upload the skin of module to be created, in the same structure as that of the previous module skin. 
===/XE installation path/themes/{{{[title of theme]}}}/layouts/{{{[layout name]}}}===
Upload the layout to be created, in the same structure as that of the previous layout.
== How to set a theme==
Select the Theme from the XE Admin Page.
Select a theme to apply from the installed themes and save it.
If you don't want to apply all the layouts and skins in the selected theme, you can select other skins or layouts and save them.
==Updates==
===Layout===
You can create the layout in the installed theme as well as those installed in the layouts folder.
When you select a theme, a layout instance named after the theme-title is automatically created.
If the layout instance whose name is the same as the theme-title already exists, nothing is created.
(If you change the title of theme layout automatically created, a layout instance named after the changed theme-title is automatically created when you set the theme again.
You can manage the automatically created theme layout by using the Layout Management menu.
===Module skins===
You can select the skin folders included in the theme as well as those installed in the modules.